A book changed my mind. It's a self-help book about productivity and goal setting. Mealy-mouthed subjects. Good thing I gave them a chance. It's not the first my eyes rolled when I say the title. What was different about this book? Was I more receptive now that I'm older? Was it because it uses short, simple words? Whatever the reason, I can't reverse the change. Since then I've set my goals: stay healthy, setup a company, socialize and meet challenging ideas. I'll achieve them by working out, by looking for problems I can solve, by phoning friends and by reading books. To chain habits, I've setup a morning and evening routine. Now, I wake up earlier, on time, without delay and in the evening I turn off and fall asleep a lot quicker. Better yet, I can also measure my progress. How many more repetitions did I do today? How many programming problems did I find? Who did I interact with last week? How many pages did I read? I don't know how, but everything is going so much better.

After setting goals, picking up habits and doing routines for only a week I hit another extraordinary idea. It's called the theory of mind: humans develop a sense that other peoples' minds are different then their own. It's demonstrated by an experiment. Imagine a conversation between a three year old and an experimenter:
"Elizabeth, what do you think is in the candy box?"
"Candy!"
"Let's open the box." Pencils pour out of the box.
"Pencils!"
"That's right! Let's put the pencils back into the box. Now Elizabeth, do you remember what's inside the box?"
"Pencils!"
"And what did you think was inside the box before you opened it?"
"Pencils!"
"Alright. John hasn't seen what's inside the box. What do you think he will think is inside the box?"
"Pencils!"
To say I was surprised would be an understatement. The results have been replicated thousands of times. Experimenters call them false belief tests. I've stumbled on the idea in a book about writing. It just shows you how quickly setting a goal pays off. With a goal you know where you are headed. During your journey, you will experience excitement and surprises in the most unexpected places.

Set your goals today. As for me, I can't wait for an idea to change my mind again!

Notice false beliefs.
