A book changed my mind. It's a self-help book about productivity and goal setting. At first I thought, what a mealy-mouthed topic. Good thing I gave it a chance. Why? What was different about this self-help book from all those stocking the other shelves? Am I more receptive now that I'm older? Was it because the book used concise, plain words? Whatever the reason, it changed me irreversibly. Since then I've set my goals: stay healthy, help others reduce stress, socialize and meet challenging ideas head on. I'll achieve them by exercising, looking for problems I can solve, by phoning friends and by reading books. To chain habits, I've setup a morning and evening routine. Now, I wake up earlier, on time, without delay and in the evening I turn off and fall asleep a lot quicker. Better yet, I can also measure my progress. How many repetitions did I do today? How many programming problems did I find? Who did I interact with last week? How many pages did I read? I don't know how, but everything is better.

After setting goals, picking up habits and doing routines for only a week I stumbled upon an extraordinary idea. It's called the Theory of Mind: humans develop a sense that other peoples' minds are different then their own. It's best conveyed by an experiment. Imagine a conversation between a three year old Elizabeth and an experimenter:
"Elizabeth, what do you think is in the candy box?"
"Candy!"
"Let's open the box." Pencils pour out of the box.
"Pencils!" says Elizabeth
"That's right! Let's put the pencils back into the box. Now Elizabeth, do you remember what's inside the box?"
"Pencils!"
"And what did you think was inside the box before you opened it?"
"Pencils!"
"Alright. John hasn't seen what's inside the box. What do you think he will think is inside the box?"
"Pencils!"
To say I was surprised would be an understatement. The results have been replicated thousands of times. Experimenters call them false belief tests. I've stumbled on the idea in a book about writing. It just shows you how quickly setting a goal pays off: read a book and get challenged by interesting ideas. O how quickly the goal paid off. With a goal, you know where you are headed. During your journey, you will experience excitement and surprises in the most unexpected places.

Set your goals today. As for me, I can't wait for an idea to change my mind again!
