You'll make a better decision if you are sated and well rested. Being exhausted and hungry is obviously never helpful, but when did you decide to rest or eat instead of making a decision? When was the last time you postponed making a decision until morning to increase the probability of a good choice? There are plenty of reasons not to delay judgement. If you do, you might look dull and indecisive instead of thoughtful and prudent. Or your superiors gave you a time constraint, either because they value quantity over quality or because they are not aware how dangerous a sleepy, hungry mind can be. And you can't blame them as this study about parole justices will demonstrate.

A paper tracked decisions made by parole justices. Justices decide if a prisoner will be released early or stay imprisoned. There were eight justices. Together they made one thousand and one hundred decisions over the course of ten months. These were experienced justices with a mean experience of twenty two years. That's partly why the state allows them to handle over forty percent of all parole cases. Most of the prisoners were convicted for embezzling, assaulting, thieving, murdering or raping. That's why each case had to be reviewed thoroughly.

The researchers controlled a lot of variables: severity of crime, months served, previous incarcerations, rehabilitation program, sex, nationality and the proportion of favorable rulings to that point in the day. What did they find? Justices released a prisoner sixty five percent of the time if they reviewed the case just after eating. The probability linearly decreased over time. It hit zero percent just before justices had a meal. After they were fed, the probability spiked to sixty five percent again.

The lesson? Even experienced justices who make highly impactful decisions about who to release from prison for gruesome crimes can be influenced by something as simple as glucose, sugar. Being sated and well rested makes a huge difference. If you can, make that big decision after lunch or in the morning after you've had a hearty meal and don't worry if others perceived you as slow. They'll change their mind after they see you making better decisions.

Because decision making is what the decider ate for breakfast.
