Take a note when you feel an intense emotional reaction. It's your body telling you to pay attention. It can happen during a conversation, a song, when you recite a poem or read an article. Maybe you disagree with the author. Maybe they offered a false explanation. Equally likely, maybe a song-smith revealed an unalterable truth, a thought that can only be expressed through music. Write your reaction and when it happened.

Why? Because you stumbled across something profound. Sharp, stabbing and motivating emotions are rare. Track them. Use them to produce a masterpiece. You need to think and express your thoughts in writing. The process of writing and editing will sharpen your agreement and disagreement with the source of your inspiration. Try to remember how you felt when you first encountered the idea. Tap into this infinite pool of motivation.

I can recall with great clarity when I last sipped from this pool.
Here's the note I took:
I am watching the wind rustle leaves of a chestnut tree. A question appears. If I was sitting in an auditorium and didn't agree wit the speaker, why should I take the risk of standing up and saying what I think? Because I might know something that others don't.
It reminded me of Thomas Paine who took the risk and demonstrated the principle by speaking his mind during two revolutions. He wanting the American Revolution to be more revolutionary and the French Revolution to be less revolutionary. Both are deadly opinions.

For Paine, the American Revolution was necessary and desirable. He wrote a pamphlet Common Sense advocating independence from the Crown when, at the time, everyone hoped the King would grant them the right to a representative in parliament. Paine though, not only that it won't happen, but that is undesirable. The Colonies should unite and become its own independent country. He described what 'government' and 'society' as words mean from first principles. He began by writing: "Society is produced by our wants, and government by wickedness; the former promotes our happiness positively by uniting our affections, the latter negatively by restraining our vices.". Knowing full well that his ideas would be met with hostility he wrote in the opening paragraph: "Time makes more converts then reason.". And he was right.

To make sure I never forget the importance of intellectual courage and risk-taking I translated one of his other death-inviting speeches. It was uttered by Paine at the most intense moment of the French Revolution: what should be done with the King, Louis Carpet, who just failed to escape France? Paine, who didn't know French, opposed the execution of Louis Carpet in front of the French National Convention in 1792.. He said, as long as the King is alive, there can be no pretender to the French throne. Instead of death, the King should be banished to the United States, a county that just gained independence with the help of France, where he could see what just rule looks like. King Louis deserves this, not because he isn't corrupt, tyrannical or full of vices, but because he shares the blame with his government and the citizen assembly that restored his absolute powers after he abdicated. You can only imagine what the faces of his listeners must have looked like when he blamed them for the excesses of the previous regime.

I've archived the original and translated speech made by Paine. It all started by looking at leaves, then wondering about intellectual courage and standing up to the group-think consensus. I took down a note. Next, I wondered how to express the risk, the courage and the principle. I remembered Thomas Paine's speech defending King Louis. I wanted to thoroughly understand the speech, so I translated it to my mother tongue.

I'm very proud of the translation. It took a very long time to complete it. No goals, no preparation, just a spur of the moment is what sparked the engine of creation. Now it's your turn to notice, take a note and make a masterpiece.
