There is no difference between thinking and writing. You think by forming words in your mind. You write by materializing thoughts onto paper. If you improve either, you will become proficient at both. If you don't know where to start, start with writing. Writing, unlike thinking, produces a concrete, shareable object: words on paper. Show your work and ask for feedback. Feedback, analysis and review are important because they'll accelerate the learning process. You can also review your own writing after a week or two, when you forgot what you wrote. While practicing writing you should read a book about writing. Steven Pinker's The Sense of Style, a humorous style manual, is bursting with linguistic advice for the 21st century writers and readers. What follows is its most memorable advice:

Omit needless words! Be concise. Pick your words carefully. Trim obese phrases. Use uncommon, vivid and colorful language. Respect your readers' time and eyes. Start by throwing away the word very. For example, instead of very big write gigantic or cyclopean. The meaning doesn't change, but the later summons an image of a towering mythological creature. Words like make, do and have are next on the chopping block. Scraping just these four will make a difference, but don't stop there.

Don't signpost or meta-discuss! Imagine if I started the first paragraph with: "Many people wrote about writing because writing is a complex subject. In this blog post, I'll explore ...". That's signposting: writing about what you will write next. State your topic as soon as possible: what did you discover; what question are you answering; why should I pay attention? Soon after, state your point: what are you trying to convey? Reel your readers in. Make an entrance. Don't be self-conscious or announce the complexity of the topic. If the subject matter was simple and uncontroversial there would be nothing to write about. Assume the reader wants to explore the idea and go from there.

Write in classic style. Imagine a reader talking to you. They'll ask questions. Don't answer, argue or talk out loud. Let the reader see the truth themselves. Create a window and paint the world on the other side. Engage the mind's eye: conjure images with unusual and precise descriptions. Think about actors and objects, concrete everyday events. Be direct.

Avoid the Curse of Knowledge. It's difficult to image how someone else doesn't know what you know. Just trying to imagine the reader won't help: that's the Curse. But don't despair, there is a treatment. Show your writing to another person or after a week, show the draft to yourself. Gather feedback. Maybe you used an abbreviation or jargon. Get rid of it. Perhaps you used a fancy word where a plain one will do. Improve what you wrote and repeat the exercise until you are confident your readers will understand your topic or you run out of time.

Good writer are avid readers. Read, read, read. It doesn't matter if it's fiction, for fun or on the job. Expand your word pallet. If you just have green, everything will look like a jungle, a mess that can only be untangled with a machete. Splash another color by reading stories or the news. It doesn't matter as long as it's varied.
